*************
Prerequisites
*************

Prior to proceeding to the prerequisites in this section, the operator
should ensure the system does not have visible damage and is installed
correctly. Refer to the installation guide from the system manufacturer
to ensure the system has been correctly installed in a rack with
sufficient cooling, has been connected to required power, and is
accessible from the network.

If errors or warnings are discovered during setup, troubleshooting the
issue may be required, e.g. reseating auxiliary PCBs, checking internal
cable connections, or monitoring the situation. For debugging support,
reach out to your system manufacturer.

This section describes which server settings to configure prior to
testing including:

- :ref:`System BIOS settings <mi300x-sv-bios-settings>`

- :ref:`Supported operating systems <mi300x-sv-supported-os>`

- :ref:`GRUB settings <mi300x-sv-grub-settings>`

- :ref:`Operating system settings <mi300x-sv-os-settings>`

- :ref:`Updating system firmware <mi300x-sv-system-firmware>`

- :ref:`ROCm installation <mi300x-sv-rocm-installation>`

.. note::

   Before changing any system settings and doing testing, it is recommended to
   record existing production system settings to allow the system to be
   returned to the original settings.

.. _mi300x-sv-bios-settings:

System BIOS settings
--------------------

Some server manufacturers offer tools that allow the current BIOS
configuration settings to be exported to a file, modified with needed
changes, and loaded back to the system. In the case that the server
manufacturer does not offer such a tool, the BIOS settings will need to
be reviewed and updated manually from the BIOS setup interface prior to
booting the OS.

Refer to the recommended `System BIOS
Settings <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/how-to/system-optimization/mi300x.html#mi300x-bios-settings>`__
for MI300X to ensure the system BIOS is setup correctly for maximum
performance prior to validating the system with AMD EPYC™ 9004-series
processors and AMI System BIOS. These settings should be set as default
values in the system BIOS. Analogous settings for other non-AMI System
BIOS providers could be set similarly. For systems with Intel
processors, some settings may not apply or be available.

.. _mi300x-sv-supported-os:

Supported operating systems
---------------------------

AMD ROCm software supports certain Linux distributions. Refer to the
list of `Support Operating
Systems <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/reference/system-requirements.html#supported-distributions>`__
and ensure the system is installed with one of the supported Linux
distributions. Other distributions may not be able to run ROCm or
complete the validation tests listed in this document.

To obtain and validate the Linux distribution information for systems
with the OS already installed, refer to the `Installation
Prerequisites <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/prerequisites.html>`__
for ROCm.

.. _mi300x-sv-grub-settings:

GRUB settings
-------------

GRUB, or GNU Grand Unified Bootloader, is a boot loader and boot manager
for Linux that allows the operator to select which operating system and
kernel configuration to use when booting the system. MI300X based
servers require appending strings to the Linux command line and this is
done in the GRUB configuration file as described in the recommended
`GRUB
settings <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/how-to/system-optimization/mi300x.html#mi300x-grub-settings>`__
for MI300X. After updating GRUB and rebooting the system, it is
recommended to check the GRUB configuration file before proceeding.

.. _mi300x-sv-os-settings:

Operating system settings
-------------------------

To ensure the system is operating at maximum performance prior to
running the validations and performance tests in this document, the
operator should ensure that power gating is disabled, NUMA configuration
is set appropriately, and specific environment variables are exported as
outlined in the `Operating System
Settings <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/how-to/system-optimization/mi300x.html#mi300x-os-settings>`__
for MI300X. For the purposes of illustration, in all the sections to
follow the commands and their output shown, are for Ubuntu 22.04 Linux
unless otherwise specified.

.. _mi300x-sv-system-firmware:

Updating system firmware
------------------------

Ensure that the system under test is running the latest firmware
versions by contacting your system manufacturer. Systems with older
firmware versions may not fully be validated, and performance or
functionality could be sub-optimal.

.. _mi300x-sv-rocm-installation:

ROCm installation
-----------------

Once the system is properly configured, ROCm software can be installed.
Prior to validating the system, ensure that ROCm 6.2 or greater is
installed. For maximum performance and functionality, it is recommended
to always install the latest version of ROCm on the system.

Refer to `ROCm Installation for
Linux <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/index.html>`__
for the available options to install ROCm on your system. For operators
new to ROCm, please refer to the `Quick Start Installation
Guide <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/quick-start.html>`__
for your supported distribution. Once ROCm is installed, it is
recommended to follow the `Post-Installation
Instructions <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/post-install.html>`__.
To troubleshoot issues encountered when installing ROCm tools or
libraries, please refer to the `Installation
Troubleshooting <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/reference/install-faq.html>`__
guide.

To check the ROCm version running on the system after installation, run
the following command.

.. code-block:: shell

   cat /opt/rocm/.info/version

An example output log is given below. In this case, the system has ROCm
version 6.2.0-66

.. code-block:: shell-session

   6.2.0-66

.. note::

   Contact your system manufacturer support representative to
   ensure this version of ROCm installed is compatible with the system
   firmware.
