Next steps
==========

After successfully completing the tests mentioned in this guide, the
System Under Test (SUT) meets the customer acceptance criteria. The test
results related to performance serve as a baseline for further
enhancements. To further optimize the system, it is recommended to make
incremental changes to individual parameters noted in the pre-requisites
and repeat the tests. Once complete, AMD recommends proceeding with AI
model validation and cluster network validation using the guides
mentioned below. Refer to the `Appendix
B <#appendix-b-reference-documents>`__ for a list of links to all
referenced documentation in this guide.

7.1 MI300X AI Model Performance Validation Guide
------------------------------------------------

Larger AI applications, such as Large Language Models, are beyond the
scope of this document for system acceptance guidance. However, the SUT
should be ready to run these large models. For reference, please see the
AMD Instinct MI300X Performance Validation Guide (PVG) which has
detailed platform configuration information, application instructions,
and guidance for AI application performance validation. Models are
available on `AMD Infinity
Hub <https://www.amd.com/en/developer/resources/infinity-hub.html>`__
and the `Performance Validation
Guide <https://www.amd.com/content/dam/amd/en/documents/instinct-tech-docs/product-briefs/amd-instinct-mi300x-performance-validation-guide.pdf>`__
is available on the AMD Documentation Hub.

7.2 MI300X Cluster Network Performance Validation Guide
-------------------------------------------------------

After validating single node performance, it is now time to configure
each server for maximum data transfer and bandwidth. It's essential to
test both host and device performance in single-node and multi-node
setups using targeted benchmarks. The `Cluster Network Performance
Validate
Guide <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/gpu-cluster-networking/en/latest/>`__
for single-node networking and multi-node networking provides
step-by-step instructions on configuring network settings, devices, and
running performance tests to ensure AMD Instinct MI300X based GPU
clusters operate at peak speed and bandwidth.

7.3 MI300X Workload Optimization Guide
--------------------------------------

Once the system and networking have been fully validated, it is
recommended to review the `Workload Optimization
Guide <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/how-to/tuning-guides/mi300x/workload.html>`__
to learn more about how to take advantage of workload tuning strategies
to further improve performance and efficiency of the workloads operating
on the MI300X based system(s).
